# Hate Speech Detection 

Zhaolin Li, David Pomerenke, Carsten Gieshoff

Project for the *Advanced Natural Language Processing* course at the Uni Maastricht, spring 2021.

We improve recent work on the automatic detection of hate speech on Twitter. Using the approach and data from Davidson et al. 2017 as a baseline, we suggest small improvements with regards to tokenization and weighting. By building a BERT-based classification model for hate speech detection, we improve the overall accuracy from 84% to 91%, and the F1-score for the hate speech class from 44% to 48%. With using only English training data for the classification task, we transfer our model to Italian, Spanish, and Turkish, and evaluate theapproach on a multilingual toxic comment dataset.

[Davidson, T., Warmsley, D., Macy, M., & Weber, I. (2017, May). Automated hate speech detection and the problem of offensive language. In Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media (Vol. 11, No. 1).](https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/ICWSM/article/view/14955)

## [[Report]](report.pdf) 

## [[Slides]](slides.pdf)

## Repository Structure

This is a description about the structure of the code for replication.

### Hate Speech

- `FeatureFunctions.py`: simplified and accumulated version of original code for easy use in down stream tasks.
- `ReplicationWithTrainTestSplit.ipynb`: Replication of model from orig. paper with train-test-split
- `ComparingTokenizations.ipynb`: Notebook to analysze influence of tokenization on Logistic Regression model
- `AggresiveWeighting.ipynb`: Notebook to analysze influence of aggressive weighting on Logistic Regression model
- `BertClassification.ipynb`: Notebook with Implementation of BERT classifier
- `TweetBertClassification.ipynb`: Notebook with Implementation of BERTweet classifier
- `MlModelComparison.ipynb`: Code for the comparison in section 5.2

### Multilingual:

- `Multilingual_Hate_Speech.ipynb`
- `validation.csv`: source data
- `BERT_XXXXX.bin`: pretrained BERTweet model

The rest are generated by running the ipynb file.

- `translated.csv`: after MBART translation
- `alldata_2label.csv`: set both hate and offensive as toxic
- `alldata_2label.csv`: seperate hate and offensive and remove offensive later

## License

Parts of our code are from [t-davidson/hate-speech-and-offensive-language](https://github.com/t-davidson/hate-speech-and-offensive-language), under a MIT license (C) Tom Davidson.
